Hotline League is brought to you by
opened by HP frost guren on the show
right now for Oscar and we're you
calling from
I'm calling from deep Shanghai how you
gon Travis what is the different what is
deep Shanghai deep Shanghai I literally
live in the middle of Shanghai like not
on the outskirts center of Shanghai got
you know if there was a Manhattan kind
of thing yeah I don't know if it's like
deep shanghai has now transformed since
the last time i was there until a ball
and you now live in the center anyway
what do you want to talk about on the
show frost grin
well i heard that you guys were going
back and forth in terms of like brand
new marketing and i thought that cal be
offered up a lot of interesting views
another one of the first guys was
calling by like the golden guardians and
their merchandise and so slasher was
talking about wow travis you do have a
bad echo working dude aren't you
supposed to be a professional he doesn't
want to wear fucking headphones or any
year so you have my in ears put in the
in ears dude pressed great you were
saying anyway i wanted to get your
guys's opinion in terms of like effort
versus value because it keeps going back
to this idea of like content and
branding and how viewership was down but
if you don't have massive organizations
it wasn't just in the NA LCS it was also
in the LC k without SKT being a parent
and a final of their viewership was down
the LPL gets pretty generous because our
top teams are consistently making finals
but i have no doubt that you know if an
EDG or if an rng didn't make a final
that our viewership would also see some
of a dip off so i was just kind of
curious like how much do you think the
league should actually be responsible
its kind of gave what I feel was a bit
of a cop-out answer in terms of like
buying from franchise that it's on the
brand versus the league and what kind of
answer yes you did can we get I gave a
witty answers I got a great reaction
from twitch chat that's my whole point
that I do the show only for that your
heart ache though the the LPL is fairly
unique in that they heavily market and
brand players but the audience and the
palates aren't completely different from
like a Western audience you can't take
like a Western
hype video and like a sell it to a
Chinese market it's much much
about humanizing the players and almost
like this this boyfriend type of vibe
because a lot of our our audience is
also female but majority of like our
marketing our promotion our video
content
you know when the players take the stage
you hear the girls swoon and when they
come into their at their frontal
interviews you know the girls all get
forward with their cameras all of the
the video and the merchandise marketing
is all them like taking the camera on a
date and like sucking on a lollipop and
like giving the holy Papa way whereas
like yes those times oh yeah you do
there's this great clear love shower
video let me tell you that's the first
time Calvi has ever in his life said I
need to watch more LPL so you're doing a
good job but like probably one of your
guys biggest brands is sneaky but a lot
of that brand was built off of his
streaming persona that then the league
effectively just you know took and ran
with it there's never like I don't know
mark you tell me if there's any like
sort of segments I mean it's always like
player focus first like let's talk about
these players let's build them up but do
you think there's any other way that we
can help like these lower end brands
that are just getting shut up because
they don't win like what I agree that
the league doesn't do much for the
players I do think that there's one man
who does a lot of content and focuses on
all sorts of players that's this guy was
it for me what's up no I'm not saying
that he's not a good guy I just want to
let's pull up how many how many years
has Apollo been in the league since the
beginning I think all right how many
Twitter how many Twitter followers my
divinity although has Mark 97,000 all
right so I don't I don't know what's
going on at Kelly's mic but Kobe's mic
cut out so I don't know what's happening
there but anyway yeah let's get back to
frost top topic so I think you know what
you said was interesting about how they
like I once again I don't watch anything
that's not game play same problem I have
with overwatch leave but like if they
really are like really kind of embedding
their content teams with them and like
getting
a good look at who that person is I feel
like at the times that the Ryan a has
done that it's often been like a written
form or you've seen like Drive and it's
always telling like a very motivational
story and it's usually very touching but
it's also in some ways like not like
indicative of who that person is on a
day-to-day basis I guess yeah I will say
that it does feel like oftentimes I like
I really like the right content I think
it is unparalleled almost like only
recently I do I think teams have started
hitting the level that the na LCS guys
can pull off but and quite frankly
that's partially because of budgets but
so do you think this is a pallet issue
the thing is is mark saying that they
don't have like LPL does a lot of kind
of throwaway content that's fairly low
effort in terms of like variety shows
like we'll take the players and they'll
make them like try to knock over bottles
and it's just like weird goofy shit
so is this simply been a Western
audience doesn't find value in like nine
players and put them in like a
pie-eating cost issue is saying the
biggest issue is it's really hard to get
access to these players I mean even even
right struggles with it the amount of
times that I've heard good idea like
Yahoo we always had good ideas I'm like
well we should do a show where like
players watch their own games and then
they're all eating pizza and just kind
of hanging out and talking about it
there's no way that could show could
have ever existed as we can get access
to it and riot doesn't have much of an
easier time doing that either like it's
just really hard I think to pull off a
lot of this content and I think they get
pushed back not only from the players
who want to scram but also probably from
the teams who say I have the ability to
produce to spend four hours producing a
piece of content around my player I
could let Riot do that or I could do or
myself and sell it as a sponsorship to
you know HyperX or somebody else and so
I think it's more of a timing thing and
that's probably why they don't do it I
also do think that Riot is a little
obsessed with like the traditional
sports world and that's why you probably
see much more of this like this like
build-up inspirational so I kind of put
the players on top of a pedestal and
like
it's tough rather than like the fun and
goofy kind stuff because the tone is
always gonna be very much like
traditional American sports content and
that's that's kind of the glorifying of
the players is very different then we're
gonna have the player lick a lollipop
and then hand it out to some whatever
the crazy kind of softcore porn stuff
that's happening over at LCL I don't
think it's a great video I understand I
think it's different chicken or the egg
did LPL grow female fans through their
their marketing or did they have a lot
of female fans and then market towards
them it's really hard to say cuz I just
wasn't in here on like the ground floor
but I've been to the NA LCS arena I've
been to the LPL Arena I've been to the
lck Arena events and there's
predominantly much more female fans at
the actual arena's we can actually break
it down in terms of like female
percentage fans that are you know
playing or watching online and
everything it's much closer to you know
females vastly outweigh the female fans
but actually in venue and for a lot of
these marketing needs and they all Kelly
sits I mean the most pretty pretty close
to like 40 60 all the most women we've
ever had in the NA LCS studio was during
all-stars when all of them flew from
China to support their there Jimmy when
it was like an LP Oliver yeah
essentially would you say that more
females tend to show up to LPL and lck
than na LCS ORS are pretty comparable
across them as far as like the
percentage of the audience that's female
oh and lck or LPL more than lck or i've
only been to the lck studio maybe three
times and not their new studio but like
when I did Cass backup and it was still
you know there was many more females but
especially on the LPL it is either like
a 50/50 spread or it is a 60/40 spread
towards females males well if we've
learned anything recently as well if
that sneaky is is defining the fact that
you don't need to have a female audience
to pander to them because his latest
cosplay stuff has been top notch gotten
a lot of engagement broccoli do you
think that a lot of the I mean you kind
of are asking this question to us but
I'm kind of trying to picture like let's
Kurt let's say that I
I'm not saying that you're saying that
all the LPL content is super sexualized
but you said it's kind of like boyfriend
content where they're kind of like it's
similar to how I've seen like Asian pop
stars kind of targeted towards female
fans like do you think that a lot of
that content would fly here like imagine
like na LCS created a piece of content
around sneaky in that cosplay and he's
like eating pizza seductively like could
could they even put that on the NA LCS
broadcast or is that just too weird for
like an American audience I how to
express you can even see it in the LPL
English like we don't run a lot of this
content even though we have access to it
you know sometimes we'll show some of
the the variety shows or some of the
games but there's a lot that you're not
seeing that it's happening on the
Chinese broadcast agrees we're going the
assumption that that's not something
that the Western audience is actually
interested in and then the content that
we specifically make when we do like our
Aussie and our rookie interview pieces
that's very much with a Western palate
in mind but I absolutely think that we
need to kind of explore different
branding opportunities for these teams
and really give them a unique identity
it's like sneaky has such a short id I
have no doubt that you could sell him
sexualizing pizza and like the Western
fans would find that hilarious and so I
yeah but I don't know what's reveal it
but would it create too much of a
scandal right like would there be -
would it be too weird for like I know
the fans would like it separating that
like a burrito thing with medius and
sneaky when they were doing like the
honorable things you know their window I
mean there's talking the closest you
guys have come yeah I think I think I
understand like why riot doesn't want to
like do a lot of that stuff because they
like I think like the light drivers were
saying that kind of professional high
quality American sports vibe they have
going on right now but it would be nice
if they kind of had a different
department that's just like let's just
make sure that the fans would find funny
and engaging I mean I've always thought
that that's what all eSports comm should
be like I don't they spend a bunch of
money flying out suspense Karen's
brother to do a long article that while
very well-written
I'm sure got very little money it
whereas if
spent that money helping stinky build a
new cosplay like that I think that video
would probably be way more successful
but these are also like the players that
don't need the assistance I'm talking
about you know like the middle of the
pack the mediocre tier teams does that
so does that work in LPL like do the re
are there are a lot of fans for the
bottom for the golden Guardians level
LPL teams when you look like
holistically a you know like the Chinese
broadcast viewership because English
broadcast viewership and Chinese product
broadcast viewership are very different
even in terms of where the spikes are so
like for LPL English viewership if we
have a bottom tier team like a vici
gaming or t.o.p which are respectively
last place like they went to in 17 this
entire split our viewership would
actually bump because they have big
brand name players like marrin and
easyhoon so we have proof and it's hard
to say again chicken versus a gif that
viewership spike comes because easyhoon
Ammar an already had established brands
before coming to bottom tier teams and
if they you know if they didn't or tried
to build the career on these teams that
you wouldn't get the same viewership
bump but like there's a very strong
correlation between like player
popularity and viewership at least for
our tiny demographic how does the deal
solve the the access issue of getting
access to these players they just force
it probably in terms of like getting
interviews no I just mean like it you
know let's say they wanted to do a funny
video with sneaky they have to get
access to them sponsorship is much more
heavy-handed like Edward gaming and team
w/e have had to put off scrims before
because they had sponsorship obligations
and the organization usually stands
behind the sponsorship obligations but
these are you know it's hard to say
whether these are you know content
creation obligations or like going to a
fundraising event or something like that
yeah I mean to to those two points I
mean after the games all the players I'm
pretty sure maybe not all but like the
players get pulled into the features
room and they give like interviews about
like say their team currently and this
kind of stuff I mean hypothetically you
could redirect some of that time into
making funny shit really quickly like if
if it is as simple as I don't know
just a sure pass yeah like a really
quick but I don't fucking know dude like
anything any quick video like you could
probably swish that time to then and not
be an extra resource drain but you are
losing out on you are giving something
up to do that of course yeah and then to
her to frost six point about like does
it help chicken or the egg I mean the
thing is if people who cycle and there's
turnover like arrow is on the third
place team if you he's a fucking goofy
ass motherfucker if you like built up
that Brandon of being like the one the
goofiest dudes in the scene and then he
ends up on optic on a ninth place team
at least like people will know every
like way more about him and will be more
hopefully at that point like you you
only watched it because he was popular
but nowadays not you already know that
about it yeah so I think maybe it's like
more of a long-term investment where
it's not like you create content around
an eighth-place team seven plays six
plays team and hope people watch it but
like when those players do end up cycled
through a little bit you have more
knowledge of other players yeah hey
thank you so much frost for calling in I
really appreciate it yeah cheers
everyone guys yeah thanks for ask but
that's a really really interesting
conversation yeah